# Assignment: Building a Sales Analytics API <br>

> You are tasked with building a RESTful API for sales analytics using MongoDB, Mongoose, and Express.js. The API should provide various endpoints to analyze sales data stored in a MongoDB database.

**Requirements:**

-   [x] Create a MongoDB database with a collection named sales. Each document in the collection should have the following structure: {
        "\_id": ObjectId("..."),
        "product": "Product Name",
        "quantity": 5,
        "price": 10,
        "date": ISODate("2023-09-01T00:00:00Z")}

_Create a Mongoose model for the sales collection._

**Build the following API endpoints:**

-   [x] GET /api/sales/total-revenue:
-   Calculate and return the total revenue generated by all sales transactions.

-   [x] GET /api/sales/quantity-by-product:
-   Find and return the total quantity sold for each product.

-   [x] GET /api/sales/top-products:
-   Retrieve the top 5 products with the highest total revenue, along with their total revenue values.

-   [x] GET /api/sales/average-price:
-   Calculate and return the average price of products sold.

-   [x] GET /api/sales/revenue-by-month:
-   Group the sales data by month and year and calculate the total revenue for each month-year combination.

*   [x] GET /api/sales/highest-quantity-sold:

-   Find and return the product that had the highest quantity sold on a single day.

-   [x] GET /api/sales/department-salary-expense:
-   Calculate and return the total salary expense for each department.

-   [x] Use Express.js to create a server that listens on a specified port.

-   [x] Use MongoDB aggregation framework to perform complex data aggregation tasks for the API endpoints.

-   [x] Test the API using Postman to ensure that it works correctly.
